What is a router?
-----------------
Router - enables machines on a network to communicate with each other as well as other networks
    - LAN ports - allow your machines to connect to the same LAN
    - Internet uplink port - sometimes labelled WAN, gives you access to a wider network
Whenever we do any sort of networking activity, it has to go through the router
Router decides where our network packets go and which ones come in, routes packets btwn multiple networks to get from source to destination

When we use route packets, they use address "routes" to get from A to B. When we don't have a route set, we have a default route our packets will use.
    These routes are set on a routing table that our system uses to navigate across networks

Hops - roughly how we measure the distance a packet must travel to get from the source to the destination. 
    - A hop is an intermediate device like routers that we must pass through
    - ex. Two routers connecting host A to host B, there may be two hops between the two

Switching - receiving, processing, and forwarding data to the destination service
Routing - process of creating the routing table, so we can do switching better
Flooding - used before routing, if a router doesn't know which way to send a packet then every incoming packet is sent to every outgoing link
    except for the one it arrive on

Routing Table
-------------
You can view your machine's routing table with the following command:
$ sudo route -n

Destination - says "if my packet tries to go to this network, it would use eth0"
Gateway - if we are sending a packet that is not on the same network, it will be sent to this address, gateway to another network
Genmask - subnet mask, used to digure out what IP address match what destination
Flags
    - UG - network is Up and is a Gateway
    - U - network is Up
Iface - interface that our packet will be going out of, eth0 usually stands for the first Ethernet device on your system

Path of a packet
----------------
How a packet travels within its local network:
    1. Local machine will compare destination IP address to see if it's in same subnet by looking at subnet mask
    2. When packets are sent they need to have a source MAC address, destination MAC address, source IP address, and destination IP address.
        At this point we don't know the destination MAC address
    3. To get to the destination host, we use ARP to broadcast a request on the local network to find the MAC address of the destination host
    4. Packet can be successfully sent

How a packet travels outside of its network:
    1. Local machine will compare with destination IP address, since it's outside network, it doesnt not see MAC address of destination host.
        Also can't use ARP bc ARP request is a broadcast to locally connected hosts
    2. Since packet doesn't know address and it's not in routing table, it sends it to default gateway. Now we have a destination IP (as well
        as our source IP and MAC). Still don't have destination MAC. Sends ARP request to get MAC of default gateway.
    3. Router looks at packet and confirms destination MAC address, but it's not the final destination, so it looks at routing table to
        forward the packet to anotehr IP address that can help move the packet along to its destination. Everytime the packet moves, it strips
        the old source and destination MAC address and updates it with the new source and destination MAC addresses.
    4. Once the packet gets forwarded to the same network, we use ARP to find the final destination MAC address.
    5. During this process, our packet doesn't change the source or destination IP address.

Routing Protocols
-----------------
Routing protocols make it so we don't have to manually configure routes on a routing table for every device on a network, so instead we use protocols
These protocols help our system adapt to network changes, learn different routes, build them in routing table, and routes the packets.
Convergence - when using routing protocols, routers communicate with each other to college collect and exchange info about the network
    When they agree how a network should look, every routing table maps out the complete topology of the network, thus "converging"

Two primary routing protocol types:
    - Distance Vectory protocols:
        - Determine the path of other networks using the hop count a packet takes across the network
        - Great for small networks, but for large networks it takes longer for routers to converge  bc it periodically sends the entire routing table
            to every other router. Another downside is efficiency, it chooses routes that are closer in hops, but it may not always be the most
            efficient route to take.
        - Common protocol is RIP (Routing Information Protocol) - broadscasts the routing table to every router in the network every 30 sec
    - Link State protocols: 
        - More complex than distance vector, can converge quickly. Instead of periodicially sending out whole routing table, they only send updates
            to neighboring routes. Uses different algorithm to calculate shortest path first and constructs topology in form of graph to show
            which routers are connected to other routers.
        - Common protocol is OSPF (Open Shortest Path First)) - only updates routing tables if there was a network change

Border Gateway Protocol
-----------------------
BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) - used to collect and exchange routing info among autonomous systems
Instead of routing inside autonomous systems (companies, schools, ISPs), BGP routes between them

ex. Sending an email from Starbucks:
    Send an email and packet travels through Starbucks' networks and routing tables until reaches a border at the Starbucks network at which point
        it passes it to a Border Gateway router. This route contains the info for my packet to leave the Starbucks network and traverse other networks